---
title: “My Father’s Shadow” Is Intensely—Yet Obliquely—Autobiographical
date: '2026-02-08T14:02:21.893Z'
sourceUrl: 'https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2026/02/16/my-fathers-shadow-movie-review'
lang: source
---
“My Father’s Shadow,” the first feature by the British Nigerian director Akinola Davies, Jr., has a strong yet elusive element of autobiography. Written by Davies’s older brother, Wale, the film follows two young brothers during Nigeria’s 1993 Presidential election, which offered hope for democracy after a decade of military dictatorship. In the movie’s first dramatic scene, achingly redolent of memory, the brothers—the older is eleven, the younger eight—loll in front of their family’s house, snacking, grousing, playing with paper action figures, trying to fill the solitude and the silence around them with banter and bravado. There’s a timeless feeling of childhood in the unstructured fluidity of their day, teetering on the border of dreaminess and boredom, its possibilities both expanded and limited by the boys’ imagination.

The brothers’ lives, and the movie itself, soon snap into action, with the arrival of their father, Folarin (Ṣọpẹ́ Dìrísù). He’s been away for an unspecified while, and, instead of coming home to stay, he’s there to take the boys with him, on a bus to Lagos, where he works in a factory. (Their mother is out on a somewhat mysterious errand, and they leave before she gets back.) The experience is a novel one for the brothers, and their excited curiosity is spotlighted in glances: Davies’s narrative sensibility fastens not just on what the characters do but on what they see, and his schema of editing involves attention-grabbing cuts between observation and action, without blatant visual cues, as if to blur the distinction. The sense of events remembered is suggested by the movie’s evocation of a child’s-eye perspective and reinforced when, far into the story, the name of the younger brother is mentioned: Akinola. (Akinola is played by Godwin Egbo, and Akinola’s older brother, Olaremi, is played by the actor’s brother Chibuike Marvellous Egbo.)

Folarin’s haste in taking his sons suggests trouble. During the bus ride, the brothers glimpse headlines in passengers’ newspapers: the election has been held, but the results haven’t been announced; there have been reports of a massacre at a military base. Their father, a supporter of the opposition candidate, M. K. O. Abiola, gets into a dispute with a passenger who supports the military regime. (In the 1993 election, Abiola was widely believed to have won, but the race wasn’t called, and for nearly two weeks the whole country waited anxiously for the results.) From the children’s fragmentary observations, it seems that their father may be an opposition activist and that his trip has an unspoken political purpose.

One of the most powerful and original aspects of “My Father’s Shadow” is the richness of its context: the civic and social setting isn’t just a backdrop but an integral part of the drama, not explanatory but constitutive. At one point, the bus runs out of gas. Most of the passengers are content to wait for the driver to figure things out, but Folarin persuades a passing truck driver to take him and his sons the rest of the way. The boys don’t know Lagos at all, and Folarin, who grew up there, introduces them to the city proudly. The brothers gaze upon commonplace sights of crowds, peddlers, and buskers with fascination and wonder. But they also catch their father’s wariness when trucks filled with soldiers pass by. “Stupid people,” he says. It’s the first time that the regime’s enforcers make their presence felt but not the last, and even when they’re not in sight the menace that they represent weighs heavily on the story. It hangs over the boys’ experience of Lagos, both in their silent observation of distant events and in closeup encounters with their father’s friends and associates.

Most of the movie takes place in the span of a single day, and two clocks, political and personal, seem to be ticking out of synch, urgently and discordantly. Folarin’s political engagement emerges by chance when he runs into a long-unseen friend (Olarotimi Fakunle), whose nickname, Corridor, reflects his size and his ability to open paths through crowds. Corridor, who addresses Folarin as Kapo and “my leader,” is pessimistic about the chances for democracy. He thinks the regime is digging in and says that it has killed four of their fellow opposition supporters. The boys soon see another headline—“*Military Deny Deaths at Bonny Camp*”—and, when a fight breaks out in the street, Folarin hustles them away.

The second ticking clock involves an urgent private matter: Folarin hasn’t been paid in six months and shows up at the factory to confront his supervisor and demand his due. But the supervisor won’t be in until the night shift, so to kill time Folarin takes his sons on a series of visits to some friends and some favorite places. The resulting rambles through town, aboard motorcycle taxis on which all three pile up along with the drivers, become, for Folarin, trips through his own memories. He shows his sons sites of his youth, takes them to hang out with his crowd in a bar, and tells them romantic stories of his streetwise courtship of their mother. (A friend chimes in that the couple was considered “a local Romeo and Juliet.”) During a stopover for a quick swim in the sea—a scene that has overtones of the iconic swimming scene in “Moonlight”—Folarin recounts a traumatic story from his childhood: the death, by drowning, of his older brother, for whom Olaremi is named.

In this way, Akinola and Wale Davies establish two parallel awakenings for the brothers in the film, and everything that the boys see and hear—not just dialogue but all their ambient impressions—contribute to one or both. There is a political awakening, triggered by the fearful atmosphere surrounding the electoral crisis and the ensuing military crackdown, which in the film resonates as a shared national memory. The other awakening concerns a second order of memory: family memory. The brothers gradually develop a sense of their parents’ intimate history, which, given that it’s their own backstory, becomes intermingled with their identities and self-images.

All the knowledge—or ignorance—that a viewer brings to a movie, whatever knowledge a viewer gains about the making and the makers, is an inextricable part of the viewing experience. I knew little about Nigeria’s transition from military dictatorship to democracy, and so only from the film did I learn that the 1993 election was annulled by the country’s autocratic regime. In the movie, moments after the annulment is announced—on TV while father and sons are in a bar—gunshots are heard. As the streets of Lagos begin to roil with protest and repression, Folarin rushes to get his sons out of the city and to safety. I also learned, from reading interviews with Akinola Davies about “My Father’s Shadow,” that the movie’s unfolding of memory parallels his own. The brothers Davies, far from merely depicting their childhood memories, are in fact making a past for themselves and for a father they didn’t have.

Akinola and Wale Davies’s father died, of an epileptic seizure, when Akinola, born in 1985, was just twenty months old. Wale, like Olaremi in the film, is three years older, so they were just about the ages of the onscreen brothers during the events of 1993. For the movie, they have reconfigured their early days into a counterlife, drawing on what they remember, on family lore that their mother and other relatives have imprinted on them, and on their later visits to Lagos. Davies’s direction reflects the variety of threads on which the movie’s subjectivity is based; one of the film’s most striking scenes occurs in the brothers’ absence. They’ve been sent to play at a shuttered amusement park, whose elderly caretaker (Ayo Lijadu) is a friend of Folarin’s. The friend, recently widowed, reproaches himself at length for the way he treated his wife, and, for the duration of the man’s monologue, the camera holds Folarin in an extended closeup, hinting at unspoken marital discord and pangs of conscience of his own.

The conjuring that Davies and his brother perform has an overarchingly creative spirit, mirroring secondhand memories of their father in the movie’s finely observed detail and the unusual form that unites them. The action is punctuated by flash-frame collages that bring earlier and later observations together in a tumble of associations and hint at the drama’s mystical, phantasmagorical essence. Yet, at one crucial moment, the movie’s composed subjectivity detaches details from context, steering the story from piquant allusiveness into bewildering vagueness. It’s a surprising misstep for a filmmaker who, throughout the rest of “My Father’s Shadow,” evokes paternity as both symbolic and material power.

This scene aside, the director’s detective-like relationship to the movie’s fundamental matter—his father’s absence and the political clamor of his early childhood—is an emotional lever for the distinctive tone that he crafts. The historic crisis makes the personal tale reverberate with an inner immensity. The Davies brothers’ recovered memories yield a private mythology that is simultaneously familial, urban, and national. The unusual power of “My Father’s Shadow,” for all its subjectivity, comes from its elements of impersonality—from the seemingly scriptural authority with which memory is sublimated into myths and relationships into destinies. ♦
